---
layout: post
title: Call for Specialist Tracks is now open!
---

<hr>
<span class="abstract">This Call for Specialist Tracks has closed, and the tracks [have been selected](/news/specialist-tracks)</span>
<hr>


Each year at PyCon AU, we dedicate a day to our Specialist Tracks. These are single-day “mini-conferences”, where each room's talks have a specific theme, curated by members of the community.


In the past we have had tracks for Science and Data, Education, Internet of Things, Django, OpenStack, and more. If you are a fan of any of the previous topics and would like to run the Track in 2018, we want to hear from you! If you have something new you want to try out, we want to hear from you!


We’re currently calling for submissions for these Specialist Tracks from now until Friday December 15 2017, [AoE](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anywhere_on_Earth).


What we need from you:

- The specialisation you want to run
- The name and contact information for you and a co-organiser<sup>1</sup>
- A short description on the sort of talks you’d want in your Specialist Track


What you’ll get:

- A ticket to PyCon AU for yourself and a your co-organiser
- “First Dibs” in the Call For Proposals<sup>2</sup>
- The chance to run your own conference within a conference

__Please send your submissions to contact@pycon-au.org by Friday December 15 2017, [AoE](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anywhere_on_Earth).__

---

<sup>1</sup> Organising can be a time-intensive task in bursts, and we want to make sure we all have a backup in case we get overwhelmed, or we have other commitments. This is why we’re getting you to submit your idea with a co-organiser. We want to make sure there’s a backup if you’re ill, and you have someone to help organise your Track, bounce ideas off, or just help out.


<sup>2</sup> We run the Call For Proposals for Specialist Tracks with the General Call For Proposals. All talk submissions come from the same pool, with specialised talks about topics being up for grabs by Specialist Track organisers.
